.Dd February 23, 2006
.Os
.Dt HTTPY 1 LOCAL
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.Sh NAME
.Nm httpy
.Nd a sane and robust Python web server
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Ar options
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a Python web server bundled with the Python library of the same name. It
serves static files from the filesystem out of the box. It is also extensible
via Python, for which, please refer to the library documentation:
.Pp
.Dl http://www.zetadev.com/software/httpy/
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width "--threads" -compact
.It Fl a Ar address
.It Fl -address Ar address
The address to which
.Nm
should bind. If
.Ar address
begins with a dot or a forward slash, then it is interpreted as an AF_UNIX
socket. Otherwise, it is interpreted as an AF_INET socket. If
.Ar address
begins with a colon, then the loopback address is assumed. The default is :8080.
.It Fl m Ar mode
.It Fl -mode Ar mode
.Ar mode
is one of the strings
.Sq development ,
.Sq debugging ,
.Sq staging ,
or
.Sq deployment .
The
.Ev HTTPY_MODE
environment variable will be set to this value, and will be available to your
responders via the httpy.mode object. The default is
.Sq development .
.It Fl t Ar threads
.It Fl -threads Ar threads
.Nm
creates a new thread for each request, up to
.Ar threads .
The minimum is 1, and the default is 10. No upper limit is enforced.
.It Fl u Ar user
.It Fl -user Ar user
After binding to
.Ar address ,
.Nm
switches to the uid of
.Ar user ,
if given.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.Sh ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
In the absence of the relevant command-line arguments, the
.Ev HTTPY_MODE
and HTTPY_THREADS
variables are used if set.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.Sh IMPLEMENTATION NOTES
This program is known to work with the following software:
.Pp
.Bl -dash -offset indent -compact
.It
FreeBSD 4.11
.It
Python 2.4.2
.El
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\".Sh FILES
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\".Sh EXAMPLES
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr python 1 ,
http://www.zetadev.com/software/httpy/
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.Sh VERSION
httpy 0.9.0
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.Sh AUTHORS
.Bl -item -compact
.It
(c) 2006 Chad Whitacre <http://www.zetadev.com/>
.It
This program is offered free of charge, warranty, and restrictions.
.It
If you like it, buy me a beer someday.
.El
