\chapter{Package Contents/API \label{api}}

The \module{httpy} package defines classes to represent HTTP Request and
Response messages. It also defines interfaces specifying how to build responders
and couplers, specimens of which are to be found in the \module{responders} and
\module{couplers} subpackages. Finally, the \class{mode} singleton provides an
object-oriented API for the \envvar{HTTPY_MODE} environment variable, and the
\module{utils} subpackage collects some other possibly useful tools.


\begin{classdesc}{Request}{IRequest}
Constructs a new \class{Request} object. \var{IRequest} is a (probably implicit)
provider of the \class{IRequest} interface. This provision is validated, and the
desired API is transferred from the \class{IRequest} provider to the new object
instance.

Your responder's \method{respond} method will be given instances of this class,
so you will be using it constantly on that basis. However, you would probably
only need to instantiate it directly if you were writing a new coupler.
\end{classdesc}


\begin{classdesc}{Response}{\optional{code} \optional{, body} \optional{,
    headers}}
Constructs a new \class{Response} object. If given, \var{code} must be an
integer; the default is
\ulink{200}{http://www.w3.org/Protocols/rfc2616/rfc2616-sec10.html#sec10.2.1}
(see \citetitle[http://www.w3.org/Protocols/rfc2616/rfc2616-sec10.html]{the HTTP
spec} for other values that will be meaningful to most HTTP clients). \var{body}
may be a string or an iterator over strings. \var{headers} may be a dictionary
or a list of 2-tuples.

\var{body} is second rather than \var{headers} because one more often wants to
specify a body without headers than vice versa. Also note that
\mailheader{Content-Type} defaults to \code{text/html} for responses where
\var{code} is between 200 and 299, inclusive, but to \code{text/plain} for
non-2xx responses.

This class is likewise central to \module{httpy} programming: its instances are
what your responders return or raise. These will be captured, validated,
flattened, and sent out to the wire by whatever coupler is in use.
\end{classdesc}


\input{request}
\input{response}
\input{responders}
\input{couplers}
\input{mode}
\input{utilities}
