.Dd August 22, 2005
.Os
.Dt HTTPY 1 LOCAL
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.Sh NAME
.Nm httpy.conf
.Nd an uncomplicated Python webserver
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Ar -f config_path
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.Sh DESCRIPTION

The configuration file for
.Nm httpy
is in the style of a Windows INI file, with two sections and six possible
options. All options are optional. Here is a sample configuration file showing
the default values:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
[server]
IP          =
PORT        = 8080

[handler]
DEFAULTS    = index.html index.pt
EXTENSIONS  = pt
MODE        = deployment
ROOT        = ./root
.Ed

The names of the configuration options are case-insensitive, and the values are
case-preserved. Here are what the options mean:
.Bl -ohang -offset indent
.It Em DEFAULTS
A whitespace-separated list of filenames to default to when a directory is
requested directly.
.It Em EXTENSIONS
A whitespace-separated list of filename extensions (without the dot) that
.Nm httpy
should take to indicate a page template.
.It Em IP
The IP address to listen on. If left blank,
.Nm httpy
will listen on all available
addresses.
.It Em MODE
A case-insensitive string, either
.Sq deployment
or
.Sq development ,
indicating what mode
.Nm httpy
should be run in.
.It Em PORT
The TCP port to listen on.
.It Em ROOT
The path to the directory to use as the root of
.Nm httpy Ns 's
URL-space.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\".Sh FILES
.\".Bd -literal
.\".Pa /etc/httpy.conf
.\".Ed
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr httpy 1
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\".Sh HISTORY
.\".Bl -hang
.\".It Em 2005-04-01
.\"released version 0.8
.\".El
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.Sh AUTHORS
.Bd -literal
(c) 2005 Chad Whitacre <http://www.zetaweb.com/>
This program is beerware. If you like it, buy me a beer someday.
No warranty is expressed or implied.
.Ed
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
