.Dd August 22, 2005
.Os
.Dt HTTPY 1 LOCAL
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.Sh NAME
.Nm httpy
.Nd an uncomplicated Python webserver
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Ar -f config_path
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Once you decide to use
.Xr python 1
to develop a website, the next two pieces of technology you need to choose are:
.Bl -ohang -offset indent
.It Em an http server
There are both compiled options (Apache, lighttpd), and
pure-Python options (BaseHTTPServer, Medusa, Zserver, twisted.internet)
.It Em a request handler
There are plenty of pre-existing handlers, but they are embedded in frameworks
(Zope, twisted.web, CherryPy, Quixote, etc.). The other option is to write your
own.
.El

.Nm
is a pure-Python http server with a custom request handler.
.Nm
is designed to be simple:
.Bl -bullet -offset indent
.It
Unlike the frameworks, there is no object representation of your website tree;
.Nm
serves files off the filesystem.
.It
Integrating the http server and the request handler means fewer processes and
less configuration.
.It
Debugging is easier since it is easier to get inside of your process, and the
publication flow is simpler to begin with.
.It
.Nm
is unencumbered by uid/gid checks, daemonization, or complex logging --
functions much better handled by daemontools.
.El

So what do you actually get, then?
.Bl -ohang -offset indent
.It Em Page Templates
Files with a
.Pa pt
extension (by default; this is configurable) are compiled and expanded with
SimpleTAL.
.It Em Two Hooks for Page Templates
.Nm
looks for a subdirectory of the publishing root named
.Pa __ .
If present,
.Nm
looks for two files in this directory,
.Pa frame.pt
and
.Pa state.py .
.Nm
looks for a macro named
.Sq frame
in the former; if found, this macro will be available to all page templates as
.Sq frame .
.Nm
executes the latter before expanding any page templates. The
.Pa state.py
script has access to the Medusa request object as
.Sq request
and to the SimpleTAL context object as
.Sq context .
.It Em Serving of Static Content
Non-page-template files are served untouched from the filesystem. The "304 Not
Modified" Status-Code is used when appropriate.
.It Em Development and Deployment Modes
Support for the "304 Not Modified" Status-Code is turned off in development
mode. The mode can be set in the configuration file (see
.Xr httpy.conf 5 )
or in an environment variable, HTTPY_MODE. The configuration option overrides the
environment variable.
.El

.Nm
takes one optional command-line option,
.Ar -f ,
the argument for which is a path to a configuration file (see
.Xr httpy.conf 5 ) .
.Nm
logs to the standard output.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.Sh IMPLEMENTATION NOTES
This program is known to work with the following software:
.Pp
.Bl -dash -offset indent -compact
.It
FreeBSD 4.11
.It
Python 2.4.1
.It
Medusa 0.54
.It
SimpleTAL 3.13
.El
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\".Sh FILES
.\".Bd -literal
.\".Pa /etc/httpy.conf
.\".Ed
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\".Sh EXAMPLES
.\".Bd -literal
.\"$ cd ~/FooProject/
.\"$ svneol confgen > ~/.subversion/config
.\"$ vi ~/.subversion/config # manually remove extensions for binary files
.\"$ svneol find | less
.\"\&... # assuage any paranoia that binary files will be broken
.\"$ svneol clean
.\"locating text files ...................... 952 found
.\"scrubbing newlines ..................... 945 files cleaned
.\"$
.\".Ed
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr httpy.conf 5 ,
.Xr python 1
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\".Sh HISTORY
.\".Bl -hang
.\".It Em 2005-04-01
.\"released version 0.8
.\".El
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.Sh AUTHORS
.Bd -literal
(c) 2005 Chad Whitacre <http://www.zetaweb.com/>
This program is beerware. If you like it, buy me a beer someday.
No warranty is expressed or implied.
.Ed
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
